h1. OMD Vagrant Lab

h2. Purpose

The purpose of this lab is to built and test out omd and nagios related puppet code for production use. This should allow for a clean and reproducable environment to develop on

h2. Structure

 * Vagrantfile - Main file that describes each of the VMs to be deployed
 * manifests - Puppet manifests. Files in the root are only used on first boot; nodes/*.pp are persistenly applied.
 * modules - Puppet modules for puppet, omd, nagios and epel.
 * epel.repo - Hack to allow puppet to have epel repo packages

h2. Getting started

 # Install the latest Vagrant package for your system
 # vagrant up

h2. VMs

 * puppet.example.com - Central puppet server that deploys node catalogs. Required for nagios collections
 * poller1.example.com - Gearman worker/poller. Performs passive/active checks for collector
 * poller2.example.com - Gearman worker/poller. Performs passive/active checks for collector
 * collector.example.com - Main nagios server. Collects information from the pollers

h2. Server Classes

h3. Collection (Nagios/Icinga Core)

 * Parameters:
   * APACHE_MODE: own
   * CORE: icinga
   * GEARMAND: on
   * GEARMAND_PORT: collector.example.com:4730
   * GEARMAN_WORKER: off
   * MOD_GEARMAN: on
   * PNP4NAGIOS: on
   * TMPFS: on

h3. Poller (mod_gearman/nagios plugins machines)

 * Parameters:
   * APACHE_MODE=none
   * CORE=none
   * MKEVENTD=off
   * MONGODB=off
   * MYSQL=off
   * NAGVIS_URLS=auto
   * PNP4NAGIOS=gearman
   * GEARMAND_PORT=collector:4730
   * GEARMAND=off
   * GEARMAN_WORKER=on
   * MOD_GEARMAN=on

h2. What can be done with omd config

 * Turning on gearman
 * Disabling apache and nagios on pollers
 * Setting the gearman server IP:PORT

h2. What can't be done with omd config

 * Setting up dup_server parameters for mod_gearman
 * Setting up hostgroup parameters for mod_gearman

h2. TODO

 * Migrate nagios settings into an omd defined type
 * Refactor the omd::site type to support working with the "omd config" command
 * omd::site should restart omd after every set of reconfigurations!
